This lesson is going to be
about rest API's and JSON.
So let me kind of highlights
what each of these are.
At the higher level,
you have your drain board,
you are [INAUDIBLE] some apps in there and
you want to communicate with the cloud.
Some services are either on the Amazon or
Google cloud, whatever you have.
Are some third party services
you want to consume.
How you're going to do that, is typically
it's going to be through arrest API.
Stands for
Representational State Transfer.
Your dragon board is going to make
a call to that cloud service.
A rest cop, and
the data will be exchanged between
this in what is called a JSON format.
Okay, so let me dive into this
a little bit more, what's JSON?
JSON stands for
Java Script Object Notation.
It's nothing but a data structure.
You probably all encountered XML,
you worked with XML in some format.
JSON is just a variant of XML,
meant to be much lighter than XML.
And they've used XML with the SOAP
simple object axis protocol.
JSON is very similar to that.
So let's look at some examples, what
is that JSON data structure look like.
JSON is made up of just two kinds
of elements, one is called objects.
You see it's first line,
you see these curly braces.
It's a collection of name-value pairs.
An example of an object you see in the
third line there, first name Jane comma,
last name Smith, it can go on,
you can have more elements in an object.
Say, phone number, e-mail, etc.
So an object is a collection
of name value pairs, and
you can have multiple name
value pairs in an object.
The second type of element is arrays.
Arrays is an ordered list of values.
Values can be a string, a number true or
false, null, or
it can be an object itself.
Arrays can be a sequence of objects.
For example, look at the fourth line.
An array can be name1, name2, name3,
where each name is an object.
If you look in the last line,
name1 can be firstname lastname pair,
which is an object.
So, an object can contain arrays, and
array can contain objects,
it can be nested within each other.
So it's kind of recursive,
may sound confusing but
let's look at some examples,
it'll flow naturally.
Here's an example from XML, you might
have seen an address book example.
This is one where you have
classic address structure.
If you look at first line, firstName John,
you close the tag for firstName.
As you can see,
every tag name is repeated twice here.
In JSON, you don't have to do that.
Half of that thing is gone.
So in fact, that makes cuts the payload.
In JSON you had,
I just said first name calling John and
start having to close the tag extra.
So, JSON is more not so rigid.
It's more flexible.
So look at this, we have firstName,
lastName, age, address,
kind of a typical entry in
an address book in XML format.
It's a data structure in XML format.
Now, let's look at how
we'll map this in JSON.
That's an example how you can map it
to JSON, there's a firstName, lastName,
value pairs.
Age, address, again,
consists of sub objects in there,
namely, the street, city, postal code.
And finally,
I have an array of phone numbers.
In this case, I just put one number there.
I should have had more than one number,
maybe for your work number, fax,
etc., which makes it
an array of phone numbers.
So you can see nesting objects within
arrays, arrays within objects.
So there are plenty of
examples on the web.
You can look at JSON instructure, and
you'll get used to it pretty fast.
Let's look at some more examples.
First line here person,
again person object, firstName, lastName,
phoneNumber array which is a home,
fax, etc., that's an array.
A student can constitutes
an object here which is name,
Firstname, Lastname and a student ID.
And then a class can mean array,
which consists
of a list of student objects,
student1, student2, student3, etc.
So you combine these to represent whatever
data you want to return from your API.
So, we now switch over to the site,
json.org on the web.
I want to show you,
it's a good tutorial site.
Let's go, there it is.
This kind of summarizes JSON
pretty much in a nutshell.
So look at the first figure there.
That's an object, right?
An object is a name value
pair separated by a colon.
And then you can have this
feedback here that shows comma,
you can have multiple name value pairs,
so on.
And closed within these curly braces.
Second element I told you is the array.
Array is nothing but a sequence of values.
The question is, what are these values?
Values can be string in double codes,
a number,
true or false or null, and
it can be an object or an array.
An array can contain arrays, and so on.
So that's that, and finally,
value is what I just told you.
A value can be any of these.
Including an object in array.
And it shows what a string could be.
So this is a quick way to
look at what the elements of
Of a JSON data structure looks like.
So next time you want to switch to some
examples on the web, we've found this site
which has some actual examples for colors,
let's say, I'll go here, see what it is.
This shows, let me kind of zoom up here.
Array of colors,
because it's square braces here, and
objects in there is color is black,
category is hue, type is primary,
and it has RGBA and hex values.
So these are some examples, so let me
just go back and show one quick one.
Maybe let's look at the YouTube version.
I think this is just
a sequence of video IDs,
actually it's right here.
The from a search,
etag the channel ID, etc.
So we'll switch back to your slides now.
So these are examples.
Next, we'll move on to
what's our RESTful API.
As I said, rest stands for
representational state transfer.
It can also be called rest for
web services.
It kind of use interchangeably
web services, rest API,
RESTful API, all mean the same thing.
So, what is rest API?
We talked about cloud services in
the previous lesson or module.
We showed you some Google regin
API where you can submit an image,
get back tags in the image,
categories in the image.
That's a REST API where people expose
their services in
the cloud via these APIs.
And these APIs allow you to interact
with these services regardless of which
programming language you use.
You can use C++, Java, doesn't matter.
You don't need custom
libraries as the case,
because it is HTTP called the service,
and you can dump some data input,
get parameters in there, and
it spit back data to you in a JSON format.
You process that JSON format return
to you and take appropriate actions.
Actually, let me go to this website
in the link right now here.
I want to show you an actual
interactive demo here.
We found this site which has
exposed a web-service, or REST API.
All it is is a URL here.
You see that one?
It's supposed to return all
the countries and its country code,
if you call this URL.
So I'm going to click on it.
And you see it just spits back a JSON
data back to me in a format
of all the countries' codes.
So here is the URL.
I just call a URL here.
I'm typing it in a browser.
And this URL spits back
a data structure for me.
How about if I want to
selectively query it?
I just want certain countries
with the country code?
So they have another URL here,
which again is a REST API.
Let me click on that.
See, they past data through the URL there,
in this case country code is IN for India.
Let's, let me type CN,
that spits back The country and
the alpha2_code, the three digit code and
the two digit code.
And let's me type some mumbo-jumbo
of country name which probably not,
it tells you okay,
response no matching country was found.
So this is an example of a REST API.
You could say, URL call and
you pass some parameters through the URL.
Could be POST, GET, EXTRA,
it could be a JSON dump.
And you get data back in a JSON format.
So that's a REST API call.
And in fact, you would be creating
some REST APIs in this course,
your own REST APIs where your
services reside on Amazon,
you write some software, you get a call
and you return some data in a JSON format.
So hopefully that gives you some idea for
REST API, so
let me go back to the slides now.
Switch here.
I want to show you how, for
example, Tesla Motors use REST API.
You buy a Tesla.
Along with the car comes APIs.
You can write custom software.
Control things in your car,
it comes with a username password, and
you also login, the Tesla exposed
all these services as API.
If you look at the diagram here, you have
a mobile app or your drive or whatever.
You can talk to the Tesla back end servers
or the cloud service via REST API.
And their servers will
send commands to your car.
You don't have to worry about how
the action's taken up or done.
You don't care.
Tesla publishes its API.
You authenticate against this.
This is my user, password,
if they know which class map is name and
you sync them in.
I want to show you some APIs now.
Here is an official
documentation of the Tesla API,
if you click on the link in the thing,
you will come here for example.
Now this is a link which
lists all the Tesla vehicles.
It returns a response in a JSON format.
You can query it, and
if I switch over here, it shows you
all the things it lets you access.
It shows that the charged
state of your battery,
you can query how much batteries in my
Tesla, climate settings, driving and
position, GUI settings,
I mean you can wake up the car,
set valet mode pin remotely from
your custom app you can write.
I want to show you this little
video next of someone who's used
these API's to do something
custom with their car.
Here's a clip on YouTube.
>> Hi, this is Devin with LaunchKey, and
today we're going to unlock a Tesla.
We have an interface here where
we allow a launch request.
What this is going to do is
bring up a request to the phone.
It's then going to ask me for
my first factor, which is a digital combo.
Then the request is going to come in.
To accept this request,
simply slide it up.
And what this is doing is sending
in the request to the Tesla API to
then unlock this door.
So, what's happening is it's going
to Tesla, the door is unlocked,
and that authentication
happened through LaunchKey.
Thanks.
>> So
what you saw in the video was the app
was communicating with the Tesla servers.
It was sending to the REST,
calling the APIs, and
the server sent the command
to the car to unlock.
The car unlocks, and in fact,
you can use these APIs to pull data from
the server as well as like a push, unlock.
You can say okay, what's my battery level?
You query in that, it talks to the car.
So everybody, as you seen, REST APIs.
These days, I hope one of the Capstones in
this course, if any of you own a Tesla,
you can build something with this API and
put it up at Capstone.
We'd be thrilled to see
something like that.
But then if you own a Tesla,
you probably don't need this course.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So want to summarize here,
back to the slide we started with,.
One of the things you're doing in this
course is you're doing your dragging board
applications.
You're going to have interact with
some of the cloud services, either.
Services people have all ready exposed for
APIs like a Tesla API or a Google API for
vision or Amazon has other services.
You get some data, let's say cross example
is your Dragon Board takes a photo.
You want to do some analysis on an image,
your DragonBoard is not capable of.
You're going to call Google,
say Image Cloud Vision Services.
You dump the image and Google sends you
back categories of maybe the number plate,
or all the things you see in the image and
you consume in a JSON format.
So, you know, complete the loop here.
Next slide.
The good news is if you think,
God how am I going to call these services,
how am I going to process the JSON
data that comes back to me
is you really don't have to do much.
There are frameworks for it.
People have made it really easy.
Other libraries out there, all he
had to do is use these libraries and
embed the URL in this library, call it,
the data comes back, it processes JSON,
gives you a beautiful data structure
in the class format you want.
So really you don't have to do much,
all you have to do is understand this
conceptually, and figure out what JSON
data structure you want to come up for
your own, or if you're consuming
a third party data service,
JSON format, these libraries populated for
you, call it populated for you, and
use it in whatever format you want.
So we will go to that later in the course,
because so far we have being kind of just
talking about this concept of offices but
we need examples.
But here are some examples of
frame works that you can use.
For C++, there a hustle of library,
the first link there has
benchmark of the ones you can use.
So I know you're probably using
various different languages.
We're not biased towards any one language.
But if you want Java, there's a Google
library called GSON that you can use.
So feel free to choose your library.
Each one has its pros and cons depending
on the app, you can choose the right one.
And finally,
one important thing is that JSON by itself
is text based, not binary, the payload.
There are ways to kind of get around it,
like you can embed binary
payloads into the JSON data.
There is one spec called BSON spec.
If you want to transmit JSON
data in a non-binary format,
check out BSON spec,
there are libraries to do that there.
Before I conclude one important point is,
in this course we are talking about
ways to communicate with the server is,
JSON is one way.
But Ara later is going to cover,
actually, in the next lesson, or
so is going to follow this
up MQTT protocol for IOT.
That's another way to
communicate with the server.
Amazon has STK, IOTSTK,
which you referred to.
It uses MTQP protocol,
a binary protocol, for
little devices to send data back,
and he's going to cover that next.
But I think that was the slide,
that concludes the lesson on REST API and
JSON, and
we go more hands on with
code later in this course.
Thank you.